All right, so let's keep going.
So I've showed you the Jumplist.
I've showed you Alternate file.
It's pretty cool, right?
There is a lot of navigation
that is available.
But none of that is quite
as good as a fuzzy Finder.
So we probably need to do
something about that, right?
But before we do that, we are going
to take a quick pit stop right here,
just kind of talk about everything to
kind of go over all the things we've
learned, right?
If anyone has any thoughts or questions
about just like general motion navigation,
meaning within a file.
Anyways, so
one thing that always kind of was hard for
me at first was just hopping
efficiently between the modes.
One thing I would recommend is you can try
remapping your capslock key to Escape.
I've heard people like that a bunch.
So being able to switch really
quick out has been fantastic.
So I started using Ctrl + C to swap out,
because Ctrl + C was really nice.
It was really easy.
A common one that I see all the time
were kind of in the rift zone right now.
So, we're riffing.
So who knows what's gonna happen out here?
All right, I'm gonna edit this and
I've seen this all the time.
I personally don't like it,
but I know people like it.
So Glinoremap,.jk, and
then go, <esc> Ctrl + c.
All right, that's it.
So, I'm gonna remap jk
while in insert mode
to actually become the Escape key instead.
So, let's just shout it out.
I could type that or
I remember I can just do space + Enter.
Boom, did it.
Now I'm over here typing then I go,
jk, I'm out.
I'm back into normal mode, right?
So I have now made it into what I want.
Some people use jj.
So that way, I wouldn't suggest jj.
Abrams, that's way too long.
But one thing that's nice about that
is you can just start scrolling, right?
And it will just start doing it for you.
But notice that you get that weird offset.
It's why I don't like it
is when you type a j.
It like trips me up for a second because
the j appears after my cursor and
I'm like, my brain just can't handle that.
That's why I usually don't
like those type of remaps.
And it also feels funny.
I like to just try to use as many
default vim bindings as I can,
unless if they're terrible.
And so, executing Vex,
I'm fine having that as a remap,
because that's just a command.
I type it in, it's slow.
Or I can make it into my own personal one.
But Escape is just Escape or
Ctrl + c is just Ctrl + c,
I can get used to that, right?
And so
that's kind of my general approach there.
All right, the Vim RC.
So we do know a little bit about it.
We do know that Vim will, that language
we're using to describe the changes to our
Vim RC and what we want to have happen.
It's kind of ugly.
Okay, we can all be honest with ourselves.
It's a weird looking language.
It has a lot of Vinism built into it,
cuz it's a language for an editor.
It's generally pretty hard to learn.
And there's, it only has one use case,
making them stuff, right?
And so I know a lot of people
that just tend to avoid it.
I recommend learning enough.
Is there any, I don't think there will be
any questions about what we've done so
far, but if there is,
please throw it in the chat.
I hear your five seconds delayed or
speak now forever hold your peace
inside of the Zoom meeting.
But here's the deal.
Don't be asking questions
that haven't existed yet.
Someone's gonna be like, well,
how do you make functions?
I'm like, no, no, no.
There is like a gy cursor somewhere or
another I forget exactly what it is.
I have it in mind enrc horn Vex enrc.
Sorry, we don't have any of the,
I don't have any my normal
navigations open right now.
But if I'm not mistaken,
it's under my sets, gy cursor equals, so
I'm gonna take that,
I'm gonna yank it into a special register.
As you can see right there,
I did an extra couple commands.
And so now I should be able to do that,
awesome.
So now let's Vim this and
I do, no, where to go?
Anyways, I think it was said gy cursor.
I believe that's the one I did.
So let's shout that out.
Now when I go into insert mode,
it remains thick.
I actually really liked
the thick looking cursor.
It's just like something
I've gotten pretty used to.
Some people don't like that at all.
I don't know why,
it's just like super comforting to me.
Yeah, I just it's so great.
Anyways, there you go.
I hope that answers the question.
I kinda guessed a little bit what
that question was meaning, but
anyways, there we go.
So there are so many things.
You can also,
like I said just google it cuz who
would have guessed gy cursor, right?
And if you would have opened
up a help options, and
then started typing the word cursor in,
trying to look for
the word cursor, you're gonna just be,
I don't know which one to do, right?
It's just way too many options.
It would have been very
very difficult to find it.
You could have also done help cursor and
then tried to like tab completed.
Maybe you would have found it.
You'd have to guess
which one it's gonna be.
But as you can see, there's just so
many options, right?
I saw one that said parole,
that sounds dangerous.
I just stay away from that at all costs.
All right, final navigation.
So, there's some options,
marks are pretty awesome, but
they're hard to use file tree,
bit lacking, right?
You kinda wish you had some extra
features in this file tree.
But that telescope,
was that a pretty cool fuzzy finder?
The best part about that telescope one
is it's not just simply a file finder.
You can pipe any table,
any list of entries to it.
It can fuzzy find, it can send a quick fix
list, it can do a whole set of things that
you can keep on iterating on it,
and it can even hold state.
You can also have your own custom remaps
with it, it's actually quite incredible.
All right, we got two questions.
It looks like, or
just two fingers up for one question.
>> Is there a way to do
multiselection in Vim?
>> So multi cursors,
I assume this is what we're talking about.
So there is a couple ways you can sort
of accomplish that in Vim multi cursors,
is always one of the,
just the chief questions.
I am gonna throw this out there
that I know, I'm gonna get some,
gonna catch some flack for it.
I'm ready.
Multicursors are an anti-pattern.
They solve a particular problem and
you often have to shoehorn other
than like say simple renaming.
Simple renaming you can do a find and
replace.
You can also execute macros over it.
There's also a G command
that's incredible with it,
where you can actually execute whole set
of editor commands on matching patterns.
Anything that involves you
selecting things like that I just
feel is it's always most,
it's there for renames, right?
But anything complex,
it completely breaks down.
Say you wanted to take an if statement and
switch it into a case
statement using cursors would be terrible,
cuz you'd end up like writing over some of
it over here because you have to
use a specific amount of editing.
And so that's why I've never found
them to be like the real solution.
They're just a simple solution
that works 80% of the time.
So we're gonna cover macros here soon, and
I'll even go over the G
command a little bit.
It's a little crazy, but
it is definitely what I would consider
the better of the two options.